Exercises

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" 
	A: String
42 
	A: integer 
09/02/1945
	A: Date
98.7
	A: Float
$15.99
	A: Currency (or float if non Microsoft)

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

	A: A database should be used when dealing with lots of data when we want to index and store the data. Text-files should be used when we have a smaller amount of data or if we have data we want to be human-readable. 

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

	A: SQL is declarative while other languages are procedural, this means we can focus on telling the computer what we want and not how it should retrieve it. 

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

	A: A database organized logically related files and consolidates data into common pools of data to be used for potential applications.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

	A: table: the structure of a database housing the rows, columns, and values, row: make up a complete conceptual unit, column: define what the data represents, values: a piece of information that the column name describes.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

	A: integers, strings, and dates.

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

	A: Look for the date and amount from the payments if the amount is greater than 500 find all the information where the payee is Mega Foods.

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

	1. The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
	2. The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
	3. All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

	A:
	1. 
SELECT name, sign-up date
FROM users
WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

	2. 
SELECT userid
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';
	3.
SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = 4;


